[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[APPLAUSE]
>> Right.
So OK.
It is afternoon, so good
afternoon, everybody.
Everybody having a
good time so far?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah?
OK.
Excellent.
Well, we've got a lot
to talk about, clearly.
I mean, I could go on for
12 hours, but we won't.
We're going for one.
There are some basics really
which we need to address.
I mean, this is all
about UFOs and aliens
and ancient civilizations,
but how does the whole thing
fit together?
I mean, we heard Paul
Sinclair's wonderful lecture
earlier on all about
cryptids, around Bempton,
and the strange lights, and the
weird paranormal experiences.
And some of you must
have been saying, well,
how does this all fit together?
What's going on here?
And what I want to try and
do by the end of this lecture
is at least give you an
idea of what is really
happening in this world.
So right, OK, that's the name of
my book, "Origins of the Gods."
And let's look at
a picture of a UFO.
Now, 1947 was obviously the
time when the modern UFO
enigma began.
You obviously had
Roswell that year.
You had key sightings.
Kenneth Arnold sees
nine flying objects
over Mount Rainier
in Washington State.
And I got into this subject
a good few years ago--
far too long ago, almost
in a past life now, but--
and I thought every UFO was
a spaceship-- nuts and bolts
spaceship.
I thought that the smaller
ones were scout craft,
the bigger ones
were motherships,
and the little tiny
ones, the balls of light,
were probes sent out
to watch humanity.
And that was that.
I mean, that's what I believed.
And I believed that all
aliens were flesh and blood,
that they came down here from
another planet, another star
system.
They were interested
in us, and the contact
would soon take place.
We obviously all watched "Close
Encounters of the Third Kind."
You think someday
that's going to happen.
But as I went on, I
started to realize
that something was wrong.
Now, I'm not going to be
dissing anything which we've
been talking about here
to do with aliens or UFOs
being spaceships.
That's not what
I'm trying to do.
But what I'm going
to tell you is
that something else,
possibly even bigger,
is going on in the background.
Because the first
indication to me
that something
else was happening
is that there were a
number of witnesses--
I mean, I investigated
hundreds of cases of UFOs
all over Britain.
And I started to realize that
various people were interacting
with the phenomena when
they were seeing it.
In other words, they were
seeing strange balls of light,
like the ones you can
see up on the screen.
And these objects were
responding to them.
They were focusing
their mind on them,
and they were
responding in some way.
Or they could stop.
They come closer.
The people felt that there
was a connection between them
and the phenomena, like there
was a communion going on.
And you think, well, hold on.
If these UFOs are spaceships,
well, why would that happen?
Why would that happen?
I mean, if you watch
a helicopter go over
and you look at it, it
doesn't stop and start
responding to you
unless the pilots see
you or something like that.
So I started to realize
something else was going on,
that there was a
relationship between what
we call human consciousness
and the UFO phenomena.
And then I started
reading books by people
that were thinking differently,
thinking outside of the box
to do with UFOs, people
like John Keel, who you
can see here up on the screen.
That's me when I used to have
hair before it all fell off.
[LAUGHTER]
And that's me at a
conference having
a little chat about things.
Now, obviously, he's done
incredible books-- no longer
with us, obviously-- like
"The Mothman Prophecies,"
"Strange Creatures
of Time and Space,"
"Operation Trojan Horse."
And these give a different
perspective of the UFO
phenomena.
They show how weird
it is, and how
it relates to the human
mind, and that it almost
responds to us.
Other authors, like
Jacques Vallée as well,
books like "Passport
to Magonia" showed
the UFO phenomena is a part of
something that's been around
for not just a few
decades, but hundreds,
if not thousands, of years.
So if that's the case--
have the aliens have
been waiting around,
waiting for the right time to
contact for thousands of years?
Or is there something else
going on in the background?
And then I read these two books.
Well, provisionally, the
second one, "Earth Flights."
But eventually, the first
one, which was "Space-Time
Transients and Other
Unusual Phenomena,"
by Michael Persinger and
Ghislaine Lafreniere.
I mean, Persinger is a
neuroscientist-- again,
no longer with us.
And Paul Devereux was at the
time-- this was in the '80s--
was the author of--
not the author-- the editor
of "The Ley Hunter" magazine.
And again, what they
did with these books
is to show that a whole
range of phenomena
seems to take place
at certain locations--
that location,
location, location
was very, very important
to do with UFO events.
And the other types of phenomena
would take place, including--
this is what Michael Persinger
writes in this book that
came out in 1977 originally--
the cryptids are associated
with the same locations where
mysterious lights
are actually seen,
and it's all part of a
bigger single phenomena.
So he was really the
first person, I would say,
that made that link.
And obviously, as we say, Paul
was telling us all about this
in his lecture earlier on.
So why is location
important to do with UFOs?
Well, people began
to realize that there
was a connection with
certain locations
as far back as the mid-1950s.
The French UFO
researcher, Aimé Michel,
he did a book called "Flying
Saucers and Straight-Line
Mystery," realized that there
were certain locations where
the objects would seem
to either manifest more
regularly than anywhere else,
and that they would seem
to keep to certain lines, almost
as if there were roadways,
invisible roadways that
the UFOs would take.
Well, what Paul Devereux added
to this, and Michael Persinger,
is that these locations where
these objects take place often
have the same type of geology.
And that geology generally
involves specific things.
It's the coming together of
plates underneath the Earth
that put a hell of a lot
of pressure on the rocks
creating what are
known as fault lines--
faulting systems, where
the rocks smash together,
but there are still
these fractures.
The incredible pressure
is occurring all the time.
Combined with this were certain
types of minerals and rocks,
particularly the mineral
quartz, but also tourmaline--
that's much overlooked--
were often found where
UFOs repeatedly occur.
And you say, well, why is that?
Well, the thing about quartz,
in particular, but also
tourmaline, is that when
they're put under pressure,
they create electricity.
They create the flow
of subatomic particles
known as electrons.
And you think, well, hold on.
What's that got to do with UFOs?
Well, this is
happening all the time.
And when these rocks are put
under pressure, particularly
just before earthquakes,
for instance,
they generate massive amounts
of these freed-up electrons,
which come from the atoms.
They rise to the surface.
They go into the
local environment.
And this creates the
perfect environment
for the manifestation of UFOs.
So suddenly-- boom.
Objects would suddenly
appear out of thin air.
And you get this idea that
UFOs are out there somewhere--
do, do, do, do, do,
do, do, do, do, do.
They come down here--
do, do, do, do.
They go back.
No.
Most UFOs appear quite
close to the ground.
I mean, some obviously are
up in the sky, obviously--
no problems at all.
But it's place that
seems to be important.
There are certain locations.
And those locations,
as you'll get to hear,
we call today portals
or vortex sites.
In the past, in the '60s, they
were known as window areas.
And these portals are
key to understanding
this phenomena and the
intelligences associated
with them.
And the reason why
electrons are so important--
and these are also known
as negative ions as well.
And I mean, there
are lots of them.
I mean, I can't even
give you a figure.
I mean, they just create
the certain environment
that's necessary for
something called ionization
to take place.
Now, what this is, is that the
electrons, once they are freed
up, get very excited literally.
And when they get
really excited,
they not only generate
electromagnetic fields,
but they also produce light--
tiny particles of light--
which are called photons.
And as all this
is happening, they
surround themselves with
self-generated magnetic fields.
And suddenly-- bang, an
object is in front of you.
So what's going on here?
Well, this manifestation
of this ionization process
is known as plasma.
And plasma, although you'll
see dismissed as simply
ionized gas, it's not.
That really does
it an injustice.
Plasma is known as the
fourth state of matter.
We all know about solid stuff.
We all know about liquids.
We all know about the gas
that surrounds us that we
live in-- the air, everything.
But there's a higher
state of matter,
and that's known as plasma.
So what the hell is plasma?
Well, plasma is
essentially light--
essentially bursts of light--
something that can
appear just as a quick
flash in a few
nanoseconds, or it
can stay around for a
sustained period of time,
be it minutes, hours.
And it can reappear,
come back again.
And plasma makes up
probably as much as 99%
of the actual universe.
I mean, the physical matter
that we know and love
here is actually a very small
proportion of the universe.
Most of the universe is plasma.
I mean, the sun
generates plasma.
That's why it generates the heat
radiation that keeps us warm,
keeps us alive.
Solar flares-- plasma.
Coronal mass ejections, which
sometimes come out of the sun--
they're plasma.
Neutron stars, black
holes, lightning is plasma.
All of this is
plasma, basically.
And the important
thing about plasma
is that when it manifests,
it can manifest as objects--
objects that can be tiny.
They can be huge.
They can be different colors.
They can be quite solid.
They can be seen on radar.
They can be invisible as well.
But there's no question
that most UFOs are either
lights, objects of light,
or clusters of lights,
and that for the most part,
this is what people see.
Now, sometimes they will
transform into something else.
But usually, UFO
encounters, UFO sightings,
start with light
phenomena essentially.
And it can account for
quite a large percentage
of UFO sightings.
Now, you might
think, well, hold on.
Haven't UFOs got nuts
and bolts in them?
We'll come back to that.
I'm just saying what's going
on in the background here.
The other thing is that
because they generate
electromagnetic fields, if you
get too close to a manifesting
plasma, it's going
to affect your brain.
It's going to affect
your bodily system.
It's going to affect cars.
It's going to stop cars.
It's going to affect
electrical apparatus,
your smartphone, anything.
The very intense electromagnetic
fields will do all that.
And we talked about
Michael Persinger,
the book that he did,
"Space-Time Transients."
He did hundreds of papers,
most of which people
just don't know about,
about the effects
of electromagnetic fields
on the human brain,
and how they create
otherworldly experiences,
the sense of contact
with other realms,
and the sense of communication
with intelligences--
intelligences that he
firmly believed were real.
So we're not just
talking about something
that's going on in the head.
And this is what plasma does.
But more important
than this is that it
was realized a long time ago
that when plasma manifests,
it acts as if it's alive.
And when I say acts
as if, it is alive.
It seems to come alive.
In fact, the very term
"plasma" comes from the fact
of the plasma in our body.
Because the early researchers
who did the work on this
in the late 19th, early 20th
century, recognized plasma.
They said, my God, look
at the way it's working.
It looks like the plasma
moving around the body,
and that's how it got
the name that it has.
And this theoretical physicist
you can see up on the screen
here-- a guy by the
name of David Bohm--
he was American,
British, Brazilian,
and came out with
some incredible stuff
about the quantum
world in which we live.
That's the subatomic world.
That's the microcosmic world.
But he also did a lot
of work on plasma.
And he also recognized
that it came alive.
And what he actually realized
was that plasma becomes
like this medium into which
intelligences-- he called it
the protointelligence-- comes
up from what he referred to
as a deeper level of
existence, one that's
beyond our physical space
time, which he referred to
as the implicate order.
And he said that
this implicate order
is something which
coexists with us,
but it's beyond
normal space time.
His colleague, Basil Hiley,
referred to it as the prespace.
And it's what's known
as a nonlocal medium.
What that means is that it's
not connected by anything.
Like for sound,
you bang something,
bang something, bang something.
It's all connected.
That's all what they call local.
But something that's nonlocal
is outside of normal space time.
And it's a medium through which
information, energy, and mass
can be transferred
instantaneously.
So once you start thinking
about all of this,
you think, well, hold on, yeah,
is it possible that some UFOs--
not all-- some UFOs
are actually plasma,
and that they are actually
intelligent in the sense
that they are inhabited by
intelligences that occupy them
from a deeper level
of existence--
this realm called the
prespace, this nonlocal realm.
And if that's the case, who
are these intelligences,
and how do they relate to aliens
and UFO theories and whatever?
Well, we'll come on to that.
Because the other thing--
and you can go
down a rabbit hole
with this-- is
quantum entanglement.
Some of you may know about
But it's the idea that particles
can become twinned or linked.
And no matter how far away
they get from each other--
one can be one end
of the universe,
the other one could be the
other end of universe--
they will have--
they will retain this
link between them.
And if you can imagine that
there are whole systems
of entangled particles
existing within this universe,
within my head-- some in
my head, some in your head,
some in the person
sitting next to you--
it creates whole systems of--
entangled systems
of particles that
allow us to understand things
like telepathy, precognition,
mind over matter,
for the first time.
And a lot of people say,
yeah, well, hold on,
quantum entanglement only
works on the microcosmic level.
No.
In the past five
years, it's been
proved that quantum
entanglement affects what they
call the macrocosmic world.
That's the world
in which we live.
So suddenly,
quantum entanglement
becomes the key to understanding
not just what I just
said, these telepathy and that,
but the entanglement between us
and UFOs.
And remember what I said
when I first started.
I was quite perplexed why
people could interact with UFOs,
and the objects would seem to
respond to them as if they were
intelligent, as if
they were entities,
beings in their own right.
And now, we're
starting to get answers
that the intelligences, the
beings that actually occupy
these UFOs, UAPs, plasma,
constructs, as we like
to call them, are intelligent.
They are intelligent.
They are intelligences
coming from somewhere.
And they're not necessarily
always coming from outer space.
But where they come from,
we'll save for a moment.
So now, David Bohm believed
that these intelligences
came from a deeper
level of existence.
So what is this deeper
of level of existence?
What is this so-called prespace?
Well, for that, we have
to go to string theory.
Now, string theory is one of
the modern ideas of interpreting
the subatomic world.
I mean, it talks about the most
microscopic level particles
that are like these
weird rubber bands that
vibrate that they call strings.
We don't have to
worry about that.
Because it's one of the theories
that came out of string theory
that's very
important to that us,
and this was the
so-called M-theory
that was devised in 1995
by a theoretical physicist
by the name of Ed Witten of the
Southern California University.
And he brought together various
different existing string
theories and created M-theory.
And the reason why
it's so important
is because it tells us
that there is not simply
three dimensions of space
that we know and love
and one dimension of time,
which clearly is running forward
for us.
But there's actually 11
dimensions out there,
and that these 11 dimensions--
four are actual space.
So in other words, there's
an extra dimension of space.
Time is there, but time
operates differently
on a higher dimensional level.
It can go backwards
and forwards in time.
And in many ways, doesn't
really exist in the way
that we think about it.
And there's another
six dimensions
that exist in what they refer
to as a compactified state.
What this means is that
they are scrunched up
tiny within subatomic particles,
and play a role which we don't
properly really understand.
But I reckon they're to
do with consciousness.
And the reason I say
that is because work
that was done by a
organization in Switzerland
called the Blue
Brain Project, which
is trying to map the entire
human mind to try and transfer
consciousness into
AI, have worked out
that the brain operates on up
to 11 dimensions of geometry.
So it's almost
like our brains are
hard-wired to operate on
a multidimensional level
when we come to understand
those dimensions.
So that's it.
But where are these
other dimensions?
What's going on here?
Well, it would seem as
if our universe sits
within something else, something
that in M-theory is referred
to as the bulk.
Now, it's a silly term, I know.
But the bulk is seen to be like
this nonlocal medium that's
outside of the
physical universe,
and it is of 11 dimensions.
And that under certain
conditions within that bulk,
universes come into being
and sort of blow up,
almost like balloons
being blown up
by mass and energy that's
coming in to these universes
using what they
believe is white holes.
They're the opposite
to black holes.
Black holes suck everything out.
White holes push mass and
energy into an environment which
creates a physical universe.
And the interesting thing
there is that white holes
produce plasma.
Plasma quickly transforms
into atomic matter,
the stuff that makes up
our particular universe.
So we exist within one
of these universes.
And the bulk is, therefore,
something that's outside
of everything.
It's a multidimensional
environment,
but it also exists within our
physical universe as well.
In other words, it's
embedded within everything.
It's still embedded.
The bulk is with us.
But it's a realm that we
didn't really know existed,
and it conforms to everything
that we know about David Bohm's
implicate order, the prespace.
It's been given
various other names
along the way, like the
ether and the quantum field,
things like this.
But it has an impact
on this world.
And let me explain this.
Because in M-theory, they
refer to physical universes
as branes--
B-R-A-N-E-- or brane worlds.
And we live in one of
these brane worlds.
But outside of our
physical universe,
they believe that there
are other brane worlds,
and they may have their
own laws of physics.
But they are outside there,
and occasionally, they
can interact with each other.
They can either back
up side by side,
or, under certain
circumstances, they
can overlay our
physical universe.
And when that happens,
this other brane world--
and there may well
be lots of them,
but let's say one specifically
we're talking about now--
once it overlays ours,
whatever laws of physics
exist within that
brane world will also
start having an
effect on our world.
So is it possible,
therefore, that there
are certain locations where
this interaction, this overlay
between these brane worlds
will produce phenomena
that we would call
paranormal, and also,
provide the environments
where these intelligences can
manifest into our world more
easily, somewhere like Bempton,
which Paul Sinclair was
talking about earlier on.
Because you have
to say to yourself,
wolfmen don't appear
down my street.
So what's so special
about Bempton?
Well, the fact is that
Bempton and that environment
has one of the biggest
fault lines in Britain,
going all the way through it.
Plus, there's prehistoric
activity there,
including the largest
monolith in Britain,
which I believe Maria was
talking about earlier--
the Rudston monument.
And the ancients were
aware that this area
had special qualities.
I am certain of that.
As much as 4,000 years
before Roman times,
the people were
there interacting
with this phenomena.
There are certain places
where the interaction
between these brane worlds
more easily takes place.
And when it happens,
that's when your cryptids
start crossing over
from parallel worlds,
parallel existings,
hopping into our world,
and existing whilst that
overlay takes place.
And as soon as that overlay
stops and the brane worlds
part again, it's
like they vanish
like camphor,
completely disappearing,
as if those cryptids, those
wolfmen, those big cats,
those big dogs, and obviously,
even the intelligence
behind the UFO-- suddenly
they're no longer there.
So what type of intelligences
are we dealing with?
Well, in my opinion--
and again, we'll talk about
aliens, proper aliens,
in a minute.
But we are talking about the
intelligences and the beings
that exist within the bulk.
We call them
n-dimensional beings.
n just means the
number of dimensions,
which we are not sure.
It could be four, could
be seven, could be 11,
could be 32, could be more.
So that's what the n represents.
We just call them
n-beings for short.
And these are transdimensional
intelligences.
These, we believe, are
what occupy the plasma UFOs
and interact with us.
And the thing is,
you might say, well,
what do these beings look like?
Well, ultimately, they can look
like whatever they want to.
And whatever they do, because
they are multidimensional
in nature, we cannot
fully see them.
And I mean, for instance, if you
are a two-dimensional creature,
like these guys here on
this flat pan existence,
and a three-dimensional sphere
passed through their flat
world, all they would see is a
circle that gradually opened up
until it reached
its widest place--
sorry-- diameter.
And then as it passed
through their world,
it would just close back
up until suddenly there
was no longer.
They would never see a sphere.
They would only ever see a
circle opening and closing.
And it's the same for us.
In a three-dimensional world--
by the way, thanks, Nick,
for the pictures.
In a three-dimensional
world, we would never
see a four-dimensional creature,
a four-dimensional being,
a four-dimensional shape.
All we would see is a
three-dimensional approximation
of something existing in a
higher dimensional state.
So in other words, we could
never see it properly anyway.
We might be able
to dream about it.
We might be able to have
psychic experiences to do
with higher dimensions,
and that's about it.
But we can't look straight
on at these creatures.
You've all heard of things
like shadow people and shadow
beings.
Well, in a way,
they are very easily
possibly multidimensional
beings that
somehow are able to
cross over into our world
on a temporary basis.
So that's it.
So these wonderful videos
that were released by the US
Navy a few years ago--
was it Gimbal, GoFast,
and Tic Tac, wasn't it?
Was it Tic Tac?
That was it.
I mean, you look at these.
We've all seen them.
They've all been
on documentaries.
You watch them on YouTube
and the rest of it.
You look at them, and
the one thing you can say
is these are real.
These are real UFOs.
They've been officially
authenticated
by the US government, US
Navy, the spokespeople
for the Pentagon.
Yeah, these are real.
So what are they?
Are these
extraterrestrial vehicles,
or are they something else?
Are these objects of plasma--
are they intelligent
beings in their own right?
Now, of course, I can't
answer that question.
And this is something
that you yourself
will have to ponder over.
But we definitely are talking
about physical aliens, as well
as anything that I've
been saying here.
Carl Sagan, the
great cosmologist
up on the screen here--
astronomer, consultant to NASA--
he wrote a paper as
early as 1963 basically
saying that it was
inevitable that humanity
would have been visited
by extraterrestrials
on countless occasions.
He wrote this paper.
And it's only really
recently resurfaced again.
I mean, a lot of people
think that Carl Sagan
didn't believe in UFOs and
didn't believe in aliens.
That's not right whatsoever.
And, in fact, I've talked
to one of his colleagues
who knew him very well.
And Carl Sagan said, look, I
had to drop the whole thing.
When I joined NASA, they said,
look, all this UFO stuff,
you've got to drop it.
Aliens-- you've got to drop it
if you want to work with us.
And so if a man
like Carl Sagan, who
wrote the film "Contact," or
the book, "Contact"-- obviously,
the blockbuster film
came out of that.
If he says that we've been
visited on countless occasions
by aliens, physical aliens, then
who am I to say anything else?
And I think that it is true.
I think that we probably have
been visited on many occasions.
But there's something else
going on in the background.
Plasma holds the key to
understanding many UFO
encounters.
Now, many of these ideas that
I've-- up to this point were
in my book "Lightquest,"
which is available over there.
But that came out
in 2012, and we've
moved on massively since then.
Now, here's my good friend and
colleague, Erich von Daniken.
His book, "Chariots
of the Gods,"
had an incredible impact
on me a long time ago,
as I'm sure it did
on many of you here.
Because what he's saying--
the questions that
he asks is, look
at all these incredible
monuments of the past.
Look at Stonehenge.
Look at the Great Pyramid.
Look at the Nazca Lines.
Look at Sumerian
myths and traditions.
Is it possible that we were
helped in the past by aliens?
That's all he said.
As I think Georgio was
trying to point out,
they've never said the Great
Pyramid was built by aliens.
But the inspiration
behind it could have
come from higher intelligences.
Now, those higher intelligences
could be physical aliens.
But again, is it possible
that these n-beings,
these transdimensional beings
that I'm talking about,
are also responsible for some
of the human progress that's
taken place?
And that's what I
want to go onto now.
So in other words,
is it possible
that in addition to God being an
astronaut, which was obviously
the question that came out
of "Chariots of the Gods,"
was God, or is God, an n-being?
So I want to take you
now to Israel, OK,
in a place called
the Qesem Cave.
It was discovered in the year
2000 just outside of Tel Aviv.
And it was on my
radar for a few years.
But then something
was discovered there
that basically made me drop
everything and go to Israel
to talk to the
archaeologists about what
had been discovered there
because this is incredibly
important.
Because it was occupied for the
first time about 400,000 years,
and it-- right the way down
to about 2,000-- sorry--
2-- yeah-- sorry--
200,000 years ago.
And they discovered the
oldest evidence anywhere
in the world of shamanism.
Now, shamanism
and a shaman are--
a shaman is somebody
that communicates
with other worldly realms
and other worldly beings.
And they discovered
a swan wing bone--
so one of the most
important bones
on a swan that allows it flight.
And that's incredibly
important because these
were much prized
by ancient shamans
to make that connection,
when in a trance state
to enter into
otherworldly environments.
There's a picture of
it, or section of it,
on the screen at the moment.
It's been modified.
It was obviously used
for ritualistic purposes.
So shamanism begins with the
Qesem Cave 400,000 years ago.
Now, you'll see the relevance
of all this as we go on.
Obviously, there's a swan there.
Swan shamanism--
very, very important
in many ancient cultures.
And for those of you that have
read my books like "The Cygnus
Mystery" and "the
Cygnus Key," you'll
know I have got a particular
interest in the importance
of the swan to
cosmology and shamanism
amongst ancient cultures.
But in addition to using
swan bones, particularly
this swan bone--
obviously, that's a very
important shamanic animal--
they were also using these
handheld balls, these stone
balls, which the
archaeologists believe
were used to communicate
with other worldly realms
and beings.
I mean, here's one here.
I mean, I was out there.
I held some of these.
And in many ways, these are
the oldest crystal balls
anywhere in the world.
So they were using them
to focus their mind,
to concentrate on
other worldly realms,
to communicate with the
entities and the beings.
And to them, they
probably saw them
in terms of their
ancestors, but also
probably the spirits
of the animals
that were killed
during the hunts.
So in other words,
they would enter
almost like this
sort of "Jungle Book"
environment of the mind,
where they would communicate
with the animals,
and communicate
with their own ancestors.
So they were doing
this by using items
of shamanic paraphernalia.
And also, by using these
balls as points of focus.
But the other important thing--
and this is why I'm
talking about this--
is that in the Qesem Cave,
a whole number of firsts
for humanity were
actually taking place
at this time, everything
from what they call
canned food, which was a way of
chopping the legs off of deer,
while presumably dead-- once
they're dead, obviously--
and storing them up and
putting them in their backpack,
so that they could use them
as a tasty meal for the marrow
inside them at any point,
early forms of freezers,
production lines of blade
tools, the first sustained
use of fires, and even what they
refer to as a school of rock
in the press, where people would
come to the cave, young pupils,
to learn the trade of making
stone tools of different types,
and there was different
sections of the cave.
And the thing is
that all of this
might not sound rock and
roll, but for these people
they were becoming
the smartest people
on the planet at this time.
This is 400,000 years ago.
And the thing is that
these are not Homo erectus.
They're not Neanderthals.
They're not Denisovans.
They're our ancestors.
The teeth that have
been found in this cave
are almost identical to our own.
They are our direct ancestors.
They were the smartest
people on the planet,
and they're inventing
shamanism at the same time.
Tell me this is
not a coincidence.
So what the hell was going
on here all this time ago?
This is an image of
that "The First Shaman"
by Russell Hossain, a friend
and colleague of mine,
who's done various
images for my books.
This is what we think
was going on here.
This is an impression of that
first shaman all those years
ago.
And the answer to this--
I mean-- and this was something
that I tried to ponder over.
And it was then realized that
if you're at the Qesem Cave,
on the horizon is a very,
very important mountain,
a place called Mount Gerizim.
And this is Mount Gerizim today.
And the reason why Mount
Gerizim is so important
is because it appears
a number of times
in the first few chapters
of the Hebrew Bible.
It is said to be the
dwelling place of God.
God dwells on this mountain.
No other mountain.
Only this one.
This was seen as the
center of the world.
It was also seen as the
gateway to heaven itself.
And Abraham, who is
the great-grandfather
of the Israelite peoples,
when he first arrives
in the promised land of Canaan,
the first place he goes to--
Mount Gerizim.
God appears to him-- the God
that will eventually become
Yahweh--
and basically says,
look, this is your land
for you and your descendants.
And he builds his
first altar there.
So this is the first place that
Abraham connects with Yahweh,
basically.
And we all know the
story of Jacob--
lies down, dreams of angels
going up and down a ladder
as he lies on this stone--
the pillow-- Jacob's pillow.
That takes place here.
It takes place at a
place called Bethel.
Bethel means the house of God.
And if you look closely
at the Bible, that's here.
That's exactly what-- and
there are a number of occasions
where God manifests
to the earliest
Israelites, the patriarchs, and
it's all recorded in the Bible.
But the most important thing
about this dwelling place
of God himself is that it's
said that God manifests
on this mountain in his
form as the Shekhinah
So what's the Shekhinah?
Shekhinah means presence.
It means the presence of God.
And it's universally interpreted
within Hebrew tradition,
Aramaic tradition,
as meaning light--
bursts of light, basically.
So in other words, God was
seen to manifest this mountain.
They would know that God was
there when these lights would
appear on this mountain.
I'm thinking, hold on.
If this is not far
from Qesem Cave,
do we dare to even think
that what's going on--
Gerizim could have been
going on much earlier,
and that the people
of Qesem somehow were
connected with this mountain?
Well, I'll show a picture a
little later on-- it's probably
out of place.
But there is no question that
the people of the Qesem Cave
would go to this mountain to
collect the flint that they
used to make their stone tools.
So in other words,
they unquestionably
saw this mountain is
important, and they
could have used any other flint
locally to make their tools.
But they wanted to go
specifically to this mountain.
So they knew it.
They know it.
The other important thing is
that the Shekhinah is the way
that God manifests in connection
with the Ark of the Covenant.
And it said that that
night, God's presence
would be seen above the mercy
seat of the Ark of the Covenant
in the form of this fire,
this bright light, which was
referred to as the Shekhinah.
In other words, the same
manner that God appears
on the mountain, he also
appears in connection
with the Ark of the Covenant.
And the Ark of the
Covenant-- the first place
that Joshua brings to the
Ark of the Covenant after he
and the Israelites cross
over the River Jordan
and into the promised
land of Canaan,
shortly after Moses had died,
they go to Mount Gerizim.
And at the base of it is a city,
an ancient city called Shechem.
Today, it is the modern city of
Nablus in the Palestinian West
Bank.
I was there in 2019.
This is the site of Shechem
that you can see here.
This is a standing stone.
This was the exact spot
that the Ark of the Covenant
was said to have
been placed down,
with Gerizim in the background
and another mountain called
Ebal on the other side.
And they did this whole
thing called the bless--
the ceremony of the
curses and the blessings.
12 tribes would
go up one mountain
and do blessings on people that
adhered to the law of Yahweh.
And the others
would-- the other six
would go on the other
mountain and curse
all those that didn't
adhere to the divine law.
I mean, this is what
the Bible says anyway.
All of that happened here.
And it said that the Ark of the
Covenant stood between the two
with the Shekhinah
rising up above it,
this manifestation of light.
Now, this light, this
manifestation of the Shekhinah
also appears in other
places in the Bible.
For instance, when
Moses and the Israelites
arrive, when they're in the
wilderness for 40 years,
when they arrive at
Mount Sinai, they
can see these bursts of light
on the top of Mount Sinai, which
you can see here depicted by
this 19th-century illustration.
And Moses climbs the
mountain, and he speaks to God
in the form of this
devouring fire.
And God obviously gives
him the Ten Commandments,
which are obviously written
down in the tablet the law.
But also, in addition to that,
this manifesting light form,
this intelligence
who we call Yahweh,
tells Moses how to create
the Ark of the Covenant.
The Ark of the Covenant
is very clearly
a piece of plasma technology
that was given specifically
to Moses to allow
him to communicate
with these intelligences
which, in my opinion,
are these multidimensional
n-beings, basically.
In other words, they
gave him the technology.
They told him how to
continue to communicate
with us by creating the Ark of
the Covenant in a specific way.
And obviously, here's a picture.
I mean, it's fascinating looking
at all the different pictures
of the Ark of the
Covenant and how
they represent God manifesting
over the mercy seat itself.
And you'll see the picture here.
But the other important
thing was Mount Gerizim.
Firstly, it has all of the
attributes of the right geology
for a portal location--
tectonic plates, underground
faulted, the quartz,
all the rest of it to produce
exactly the type of environment
to create the
manifestation of lights.
And I looked into this.
Historically, lights
seen in the area.
No problem at all.
They've even been seen
in more modern times,
have been interpreted in terms
of flying saucers and UFOs.
But what's so interesting
is that I thought, well,
that's all very nice,
but I need more.
I need to go there.
So I went to the Qesem Cave.
After that, I crossed over
into the Palestinian West Bank.
I climbed Mount Gerizim.
And at the top,
there's a community
of people known
as the Samaritans.
They claim to be the descendants
of the original Israelites.
And I wanted to ask them about
the mysteries of the mountain.
And we spoke to one of the
highest ranking priests there.
I was there with an interpreter.
And I said to him, I said--
I said to him, these
lights, I said,
are they still seen here today?
And he said, oh, yes.
Yeah.
I said, how do you
interpret them?
And the word that he said was
"malak," which some of you
will probably know means angel.
So what we would call
today UFOs or UAPs still
appear on this
mountain to this day,
and they are interpreted by
this very ancient community,
religious community,
as the manifestation
of God's messengers-- the
angels appearing there.
And this does show
you how timeless
this subject is, that we are
not dealing with nuts and bolts
spacecraft all the time, that
we're dealing with something
that's many, many
thousands of years old,
and has been interpreted
by different people
in different ways.
And as I mentioned
earlier-- this is
the slide I alluded
to-- is the Qesem people
would go to this mountain
to get their flint.
And there are traditions all
the way around the world.
I talk about it in the
book "Origins of the Gods"
over there, that
holy mountains are
associated with mysterious
light phenomena.
I go to China.
I go to Greece.
I go to America.
And there are the places
where lights are seen,
UFOs are seen, Indigenous
peoples have always
gone to get their
raw materials to make
their tools because they believe
that there is a power connected
with those mountains, one
that they can take away
in a mobile or temporary form
to create their stone tools,
or their stone balls,
or whatever it is,
to continue that
link with an entity
that they associate
with those mountains.
And this entity,
by the way, we call
egregore, which essentially
is means an entity that
has its own
existence, but is fed
by what we call human
consciousness interaction.
That's the other important
element of all of this,
is that we are a part of
the phenomena-- as Paul
Sinclair was saying
earlier today
with the Bempton phenomena
and the wolfmen stuff,
is that we play a role.
I would say that we
are as much as 50%
of the contribution to us
connecting with the phenomena.
In other words, take
us out of the picture,
put us on another planet--
would the phenomena
still take place?
Yes, it would, but
only to a degree.
It needs us.
It needs human
observation, human contact,
human consciousness interaction
to properly manifest
and to know when to manifest
because we have this entangled
connection with the phenomena.
It's all part of the same thing.
So as we mentioned earlier,
the Ark of the Covenant
was brought here.
I mean, the Ark is
not only an example
of what I call
n-being technology.
But remember, the people--
the Israelites firmly
believed that it was
God manifesting above that Ark.
And if that's the case,
then their interaction
with these plasma intelligences,
these multidimensional
intelligences, is being fed.
It's being fed all the
time by using this box,
by using it to manifest
these intelligences.
And the technology, as I said,
was given by the light itself--
God in the form of light.
So Mount Gerizim, just
like Bempton and Yorkshire
is a portal location.
There are countless
ones all over the globe,
probably in every
country of the world.
I mean, you probably know of
many yourself, many places
where lights manifest,
paranormal phenomena manifests,
where cryptids appear.
They're all part
of the same thing.
They're all part of
a bigger picture.
And the biggest showcase
portal location in the world
is obviously Skinwalker
Ranch at this time.
And during the writing
of "Origins of the Gods,"
which I wrote with my
colleague, Greg Little,
I had the opportunity of
going to Skinwalker Ranch.
I was invited out there.
I've had a lot of contact
with the people involved.
There's me at the entrance.
And there's me
with various people
that you will recognize
from the TV show there.
And I was able to spend a
good couple of days, not just
talking to these guys, but
also to workers on the ranch--
people who were not interested
in UFOs per se, really.
And yet, they'd seen
objects themselves.
They'd seen them either suddenly
manifest directly above them,
or they were seeing
objects flying along
what's known as the
northern mesa, which borders
the ranch on the northern side.
And I was able to build up
a massive picture of what
was going on there.
And here's the summary of it.
The main price associated
with the phenomena
there is the northern mesa.
This is homestead
number two, which
is where more paranormal
phenomena takes place
than anywhere else.
And the thing about
this northern mesa
is that it's made of a
type of sandstone that's
almost solid quartz.
And this quartz powders,
in fact, to such a degree
that you have to wear masks
or scarves around your neck--
around your face almost all
the time because it just
gets in your throat, and
it's really not good for you.
And in addition to that,
the Native American peoples,
the Utes and the
Navajo of the area,
refer to this northern mesa
as the Path of the Skinwalker.
And they say that
this creature called
the Skinwalker, which we'll
talk about in a second,
moves along there.
And they've believed this
for at least something
like 15 generations.
So at least a couple of
hundred years, and I'm
sure much longer than that.
But what's so
important about this.
We already talked about
quartz producing electrons
which produce what's known
as ionospheric environments,
where lights can appear.
But we'd also expect to
have other types of geology
at Skinwalker Ranch which tells
us it's a portal location.
And indeed, there
is a fault line.
And nobody's
mentioned this other
than me, is that there's the
fault line going right the way
through this northern mesa.
So that produces-- helps
produce electricity,
which releases these electrons
into the air, which can produce
electromagnetic fields.
And also, these
plasma objects will
suddenly burst and
manifest into existence.
And it creates the
right environment
where the overlay between
these different brane worlds,
these multidimensional realms,
can take place more easily
than somewhere else.
So the communication
with the intelligences
of these other realms,
these intelligences,
these beings of the bulk,
can more easily take place.
But what's so interesting is
that the guys who are on the TV
show who I was able
to talk to, they
say that the intelligence
involved with Skinwalker Ranch
is a single entity.
I mean, they believe
that there is just one.
And that everything
that happens there
is a manifestation of
this one intelligence.
And this intelligence
knows them.
It's omnipresent.
It's omnipotent in a way.
It only manifests, it only does
things when it wants to do it.
And what's so interesting
is that the term
that they use for
this intelligence,
this single intelligence which
I call an egregore, is the host.
And I've heard Paul talk
about the Bempton phenomena,
and the intelligence
behind the phenomena
there, also use this same term.
So it's interesting that
these portal locations
seem to have this entity, this
egregore, this intelligence
associated with it that
somehow is connected
with a multidimensional
existence,
and that it's this
that can suddenly
produce lights, or suddenly
produce wolfmen, or suddenly
produce paranormal activity,
can suddenly connect with you
and be with you.
And then eventually, let you go.
I mean, these intelligences
are not necessarily
how we've perceived
aliens up to this point.
We have to update
our views about what
is going on out there.
There's no question about that.
But just a few words on
skinwalkers themselves.
The term skinwalker is
essentially a Navajo term.
And it means a witch--
that's their term-- it
was a Navajo word for it,
but basically we mean shaman--
the form, the supernatural
form, that they take when
they are in a trance state.
So they'll do their ritual.
They'll get out into
an altered state,
and they will become
an animal that
will then be able
to go out and do
things, including curse people.
And they do do that.
And the most obvious form of
the skinwalker is the wolf.
In fact, the same word for
witch and wolf in Navajo
is exactly the same.
So that shows the
link between the two.
And Skinwalker Ranch and the
little area of the entire basin
where it's in, was
sacred lands to
these Native American
peoples in the past.
There is a stone
circle up there.
There is rock art As we know,
the Native American peoples
call it the Path
of the Skinwalker,
and it's all connected with this
northern mesa where this fault
line is, which seems to
be the focus of where
all this phenomena takes place.
And so they interpret
what they see,
which presumably is lights and
other paranormal phenomena,
as evidence of skinwalkers.
And the reason why they
believe that it's skinwalkers
is because the
Ute and the Navajo
had wars in the 19th century.
It was very nasty.
And I think that there's
an element, particularly
amongst the Ute who
conquered the Navajo
and imprisoned them, possibly
even put them into slavery,
according to certain stories,
is that I think they almost
feel that the presence
of this phenomena
is like the result
of this curse that
was put upon them by their rival
tribe, the Navajo, in the past.
So in other words, when
they see and experience
paranormal phenomena, they're
not seeing aliens and UFOs.
They're seeing evidence
that their tribe
has been put under a curse.
And, I say, there's
references for all of this.
So this is real stuff.
So what happened to
me when I was there?
Well, firstly, the
whole time I was there,
I just had this sense
that it was like--
I felt I was on the edge of
paradise was the term that
kept coming into my head.
It's like, I always
felt that anything
could happen at any time.
It was a very weird feeling.
And there's only a few
places where I've felt that.
One is Bempton up in Yorkshire.
Another is Marfa in Texas, where
mysterious lights also appear--
this same edginess about it.
But something weird did happen.
I was taking-- I mean,
whilst I was there,
I took hundreds, if not
thousands, of pictures.
I took video.
I was recording sound
recordings all the time
just so that we could
analyze them afterwards.
And one of the strangest
things was this picture
that you can say here now.
And it's towards
homestead number two.
You can see the
northern mesa behind it.
And there's this weird creature
turns up over homestead two.
And this is it.
Now, I saw nothing at the time.
I showed it to the guys
in the command center,
and they did
actually try and look
to see if there was
anything on the cameras.
They couldn't see anything.
And I don't know what
the hell this is.
I mean, it's not an insect
because it's far too sharp,
which means it was
a distance away.
I've tried contacting
bird specialists in Utah.
They have no idea.
And yet, you can see the colors.
It's blue.
It's yellow.
It's black.
It's white.
And there's this weird thing
hanging from the center of it
almost like a stalk of corn.
I mean, some people said, oh,
could it have been a drone?
Well, there was no
drones up at that time.
I mean, they did use
one later on that day,
but it certainly
didn't look like that.
So is it possible
that it is a cryptid?
And weird birds have been
seen at Skinwalker Ranch.
That's one of the
weird cryptids that
appears there other than,
of course, wolf men,
just like at Bempton.
You get these
weird dog men which
archaeologically they call
lycans, which means basically
wolf man, basically.
So I don't know what this is.
And to me, I've
just thrown it in.
I've included it in the
book, and that's that.
So Skinwalker Ranch is a perfect
example of a portal location.
But it's only a showcase site.
And you will know
places like this.
I mean, they won't-- they
don't need to be big either.
I mean, they could
be somewhere locally,
somewhere that's, a, connected
with mysterious lights, UFOs,
paranormal activity,
cryptids in your own locale,
wherever that is, whether
it be in this country,
or whether it be
abroad, somewhere
that you know that you can
connect with the phenomena.
Also, just be aware that
when you go to these sites,
these are the most obvious
places or the most likely sites
where you can communicate
with these transformational
intelligences.
I mean, aside from any
other type of intelligence,
aliens or whatever
else it is you
want to see as associated
with these places.
But remember, that they
are multidimensional.
They're entangled with you.
And they are super intelligent.
They will know
that you're there.
You can communicate with them.
I mean, in the
book "Lightquest,"
I give a whole meditation
on how you yourself can
connect with these entities.
And you ought to go there.
I mean, you'll also
find that there's
folklore connected with them.
Probably it will
say that this was
the haunt of devils in the
past, or of mysterious beasts,
or the folk-- or folk creatures
like goblins, elves, things
like that would manifest here
with their strange lights.
I mean, you'll often find
that's the case, particularly,
of course, in Europe.
In America, it's Native
American tradition
that you would look for
similar sort of traditions.
And indeed, my
colleague, Greg Little,
in his half of the
book, looks at all
of this from the Native
American perspective.
I obviously, keep much more
to the Eurasian continent,
and Britain, in particular.
So to me-- and
this is something I
want you to take away is
that, yes, UFOs exist.
Yes, aliens exist.
And they can be physical.
And they probably
have been visiting
the Earth for a very,
very long period of time.
What their impact has
been on human civilization
I'm not sure.
But what I also believe
is that going as far
back as 400,000 years with the
Qesem Cave, the Qesem people,
is that they were interacting
with these intelligences,
and these intelligences
were helping
them to progress with
innovations and technology.
That's why they became the
smartest people in the planet
in that time.
But I think that this connection
probably even goes back even
further than that.
I mean, we all came
originally from Africa
on the Great Rift Valley
in countries that are today
Tanzania, Kenya, Ethiopia.
And this is some of the most
geologically active places
on the planet.
And this is where we invented
fire for the first time.
We built these fires in caves.
And we would have thrown
all sorts of plants on them.
And some of those plants
would have been psychoactive.
And they would have sent
us into altered states
of consciousness.
And at exactly this
time, we go from creating
what are known as pebble tools,
which are just picking up
pebbles, smashing
them, and using them,
to creating the most beautiful,
multifaceted crystal-like hand
axes for the first time known
as the Acheulean hand ax.
And some connection-- this was
the first point of connection,
I think, with
these intelligences
as much as 1.75
billion years ago.
And from that point
onwards, these intelligences
have been influencing us.
They influenced us to create
the Ark of the Covenant.
They inspired the Great Pyramid.
They inspired places
like Gobekli Tepe
in Southeast Turkey.
They inspired the beautiful
geometry of places
like Stonehenge, the
megalithic culture.
They were aware of
these intelligences.
They connected with them.
And they are still
with us today.
And I think that there is
an awful lot of companies,
organizations, and
think tanks that
know that these n-beings,
these multidimensional,
transdimensional beings exist.
And that if we can just
communicate with them,
they will help progress
human evolution.
And as I said, this has been
going on since the beginning.
So with that, I will
say thank you very much.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]